hi welcome to another episode of coffee
break with me
today i want to answer an important
questions related to the preparation
process of creating a marketing plan or
any plan for that matter why do i want
to talk about that because now is the
beginning of q2 the second quarter of
the year a lot of people are adjusting
the marketing plan so let's talk about
it how you can prepare to make that
adjustment
okay and the one key things of doing
that adjustment is getting feedback from
your stakeholders so the question is how
should you go about interviewing your
internal stakeholders and after this
short interview you'll understand
and do
how to conduct a productive interview
with your stakeholders
how to develop a list of key questions
to ask
number three
how to establish a better working
relationship with them okay
i created the ultimate list of questions
that you can ask to start writing a
comprehensive marketing plan
so if you are looking for examples of
questions that can be incorporated as a
part of interview
you can check out this specific video
okay the ultimate list of a question to
start writing a comprehensive plan on my
youtube channel right like i said check
it out
by the way
my coffee break is a series that's
syndicated to linkedin
twitter facebook
and youtube
if you missed any of my live stream like
now you can always go back and check out
my past
archive of recorded video
on pam dinner's youtube channel so just
search for pam dinner you will find
a lot of video i did in the past
and if you like the way i explain things
please give the video thumbs up
subscribe to my channel and comment
below love love love to hear from you
so that let's come back to the question
so marketers we are doers
and we love to get things done in a
quick cheap and efficient way and that's
how we are wired
so when we need to create a plan we tend
to open up the powerpoint and start
writing and start drafting right
however that's okay but a lot of time
when you start doing that
you have a lot of thoughts it's very
hard to organize them and also you don't
know what your stakeholders are thinking
and what their expectations are so you
need to actually check with them i
recommend that you actually have an
interview or a conversation with them on
a regular basis it can be every three
months or it can be every six months but
have a conversation with them
and that whole process of interviewing
them getting their feedback before you
adjust your plan is what i call planning
for the plan
so if you think about it the purpose of
a marketing plan is to show how you work
with others as a team to achieve your
business goals
the plans also need to be approved by
your management
therefore is not only to showcase your
own recommendation
it's also necessary to address your
stakeholders and management's questions
and concerns as a part of your plan at
the same time
so it's not just like your
recommendation that you presented you
need to add the feedback the expectation
as a part of it and if you are not doing
some of their recommendations you have
to explain why to them so they
understand
therefore
it's imperative to get their feedback by
doing that you will minimize confusion
okay
and also minimize any kind of rattles
before you present your plans to them
because a lot of time if you don't know
what to expect and during your
presentation they'll say what about this
what about that but if you know that in
advance
boom you can address that questions and
minimize any kind of questions they have
during the meeting
so here are three tips
to prepare the interview number one you
have to determine interview formats
number two
do your homework
number three
create relevant interview questions
only three things is
kind of like ability that you can take
control the interview does that make
sense if you determine the interview
formats if you do your homework and you
create relevant questions you you are
controlling
the meeting and your conversation with
them
number one
determine the interview format
with the interview formats it's best uh
to conduct the interview face to face
and uh for example buy your stakeholders
a cup of coffee or lunch as an incentive
get together with them right
if face-to-face is not possible holds a
virtual meeting make sure to turn on
your video so they can see your face
and hopefully you will be able to see
them as well but be aware some people
may prefer just you know off camera type
of chat
and don't forget to record the session
with your permission of course so that
you can go back and listen to their
feedback if necessary
number two do your homework to
understand your stakeholders
what do they do
how do they work with us
what is our relationship with them
well how does this group stand in the
relationship with the overall company
organizational structure
for example if they have a sales
organization and or are they part of
they say product team right
and are they happy with your support
do the top management teams of the two
groups do they play well together
are there any unresolved conflicts or
issues that you are aware have been
going on for a while
also are there any kind of political
landmines that you need to know
like there are certain things you
probably should not mention to them
what are some of the political do's and
don'ts right
so if you have been with the company for
a long time
you are probably aware some of the stuff
i'm talking about and also the overall
relationship between
your team and your stakeholders
but if you are new
talk to your team members just to get
the gist of the working relationship
before reaching out to your stakeholders
you don't want to go there not knowing
the back histories and the story
and on top of it you don't want to sound
ignorant in front of your stakeholders
so make sure you understand the history
and the background before you have
in-depth conversation with them you
don't want them to educate you
you want them to you want them to
getting that information in advance so
you save them time
next prepare a list of a question in
advance again this is a way to take
control of the interview
and the one of the best way to do that
is creating a list of a question that
you can ask
and asking the right question is the
best way to get the intelligence and
information so you can
create or modify your plan as you see
fit
so what kind of questions should you ask
your internal stakeholders and here are
six main questions as a starting point
and there are more
what are your challenges and concerns
right every single organization every
single group tend to have some
challenges they have to encounter what
are they
and also what are some of the main focus
for the upcoming years are there any
goals and the business objectives that
they need to accomplish
number three what's the feedback
regarding campaigns results and services
and support provided by your team
right so if you are running campaigns
for the product team or the sales team
such as account-based marketing or you
are providing services to them
what are they
and of course are they happy with it
and most important thing is if you are
doing a service level type of a work
are they happy about it on top of it can
you improve and they probably can give
you some ideas in terms of what you can
do better and you can always end
your interview with what can you do to
help
right
whenever um
my clients ask that specific question
they are always like concerned they will
get a laundry list
of uh
tactics or requests from their
stakeholders yeah there's a chance you
will they will give you a laundry list
that doesn't mean you have to do every
single one of them you don't right
because they understand you have a
finite resource and the budget
you need to prioritize what needs to be
done and that prioritization is a great
topic or a slide that can be injected
into your overall marketing plan
so tailor your questions on whom you
talk to
that's another tips if you interview a
finance person and uh you should bring a
budget related and actual expense
related type of questions to the
interview if you care to understand how
the money is spent
if you interview a product teams i would
strongly uh discuss uh the persona the
messaging the product features and the
role map as a part of interview because
you have to incorporate that as a part
of marketing plan especially when it's
related to product launches
when you ask about their challenges and
concerns some stakeholders like i said
might give you a laundry list of things
that you don't have to do every single
one of them there's no need to solve the
world hunger
and it's very important to end your
interview with a good note
and that good note can be uh like i said
earlier what can you do to help or you
can uh reinforce some of the key points
that has been discussed and also share
with them in terms of what the next
steps are
right
so this type of gesture in terms of
clothing show not only you listen but
you are also willing to take action to
address their needs
all right so that's how i answer today's
question i hope you enjoyed today's
coffee break don't forget to like
comment and subscribe and join me next
time for another new topic take care
bye-bye